## Synopsis

This project is  developed and submitted to satisfy the requirements of project work for the Coursera - Data  Science Course  "Getting and Cleaning Data".  

Project folder includes the following:
  * <b>run_analysis.R</b>   the R script file
  * <b>column_subset_and_map_for_step2.txt</b>   a  required data file used by run_analysis.R . This file contains the columns to be subset and column mapping to descriptive names.
  * project_RStudio_snip.PNG    (RStudio screen shot)
  * project_final_tidy_data_set_in_RStudio.PNG (RStudio screen shot)
  * final_tidy_data_set_screen_shot_in_RStudio.PNG (RStudio screen shot)
  * <b>getting_and_cleaning_data_project_final_tidy_data_set.txt</b>  . This is the final tidy dataset generated by run_analysis.R



## Code Example

The script is written in R . This project is run by setting working directory to this project folder and sourcing the script run_analysis.R . 
e.g. <br>
> setwd("C:/project_folder_containing_script")<br>
>source("run_analysis.R")<br>

## Motivation

This project is submitted for getting project credit in course "Getting and Cleaning Data"

## Installation & Evaluation
   Please use RStudio for running the script. If necessary install "dplyr" package.

  * Check out the project . 
  * Start RStudio / R
  * > setwd("C:/checked_out_folder")  
  * > source("run_analysis.R")
  * getting_and_cleaning_data_project_final_tidy_data_set.txt file will be created in working/project directory.
  * Please verify all the "Data", "Values", & Functions in Environment tab . Click on table icons to view all data frames in RStudio.

## API Reference

This project uses the following APIs for various steps in the project.<br>
download.file()<br>
unzip()<br>
paste()<br>
dir.create()<br>
read.table()<br>
cbind()<br>
rbind()<br>
group_by()<br>
summarise_each()<br>

## Tests

This project is to be evaluated by peers by sourcing the script  "run_analysis.R" preferably in RStudio as it displays  console output and Global Environment :
>source("run_analysis.R")
Here is the console output<br>
[1] " ... downloading data set ..."<br>
[1] " ... unzipping the data  set ..."<br>
[1] " ... loading features.txt, activity_labels.txt ..."<br>
[1] " ... loading train set ..."<br>
[1] " ... loading test set ..."<br>
[1] "... cbind participant/subject id's x_test as column V562 ... "<br>
[1] "... cbind participant/subject id's x_train as column V562 ...  "<br>
[1] " ... rbind/combine rows of  test and train tidy data sets ..."<br>
[1] " ... step 1 completed ..."<br>
[1] "... step 2 begin ..."<br>
[1] "...load column_subset_and_map_for_step2.txt ..."<br>
[1] "... get a column vector for subsetting only 73 columns mean & std + subject id ..."<br>
[1] "... get a column vector for renaming with descriptive names ..."<br>
[1] "... subset 73 columns from  test & train merged data set ..."<br>
[1] "... rename 73 columns with descriptive names ..."<br>
[1] "... step 5 begin ..."<br>
[1] "... Grouping measurement by subject id ..."<br>
[1] "...apply mean function to all columns..."<br>
[1] "...write summarized data fram in file...final output in ..."<br>
[1] "getting_and_cleaning_data_project_final_tidy_data_set.txt"<br>
## Contributors
This project is submitted for getting academic credit only. 


## License

Not applicable .  Do not copy for submitting it as your own project for academic credit. Free to use for any other purpose.


